# SpaceDefense
A game made on Processing with Java. The user can maneuver her/his spaceship to shoot at the falling asteroids and health items. 

I initially made the game without the Arduino part and included the use of the keyboard to make the development more convenient and seamless. This is because it seemed rather easier for me to replace the keyboard use with the button use through serial communication than leaving numerous chunks blank. I still commented out not all but most of the parts necessary to run the keyboard to play the game. So find parts as shown below and simply uncomment them to use the keyboard instead! (apart from the uncommenting you need to do some tweaking into the code of course)

In terms of the code in Processing, I have in total of 4 classes (Player, Laser, Item, and Asteroid). I used polygons instead of images on asteroids for three reasons. First, I resized the images in Processing and that made the whole game slow. After talking with Aaron, I realized I could have cropped or resized images outside of Processing. However, there was another reason I preferred not to use an image for an asteroid. I thought it would be awkward to recreate the specific movement effect on an image, and the way my code generated different shapes, sizes, trajectories made the game more resourceful. Lastly, employing shapes instead of simply importing images seemed like a bigger challenge to me so I went with it. This is because these polygons have different shapes and vertices and so the collision effect on them required more thinking and effort than on uniform images.

The biggest challenge for me was controlling and coordinating the movement of different objects. This is because I had to manage a set of situations where different objects collide with one another. The next challenge was serial communication. I just had to spend some time figuring out the use of data transferred from Arduino within different classes. Also because when an error arose I had to check both Processing and Arduino, so that required extra investigation on a broader scope. After completing the general skeleton code of the game, I initially connected the maneuvering of the spaceship to the potentiometer. So depending on the degree of rotation, the spaceship would either move left or right. But after trying this for a while, I realized how inconvenient and clumsy it gets when using the potentiometer. The rotation of the button was simply too difficult to carry out that it was annoying to invest so much energy when playing the game.

With this problem and user experience in mind, I decided to use push buttons. I also decided to get rid of UP & DOWN buttons because it made physiologically little sense that LEFT & RIGHT & UP & DOWN buttons are all aligned next to each other. So the spaceship was only allowed to move sideways and this was enough. I then added two push buttons – one for shooting bullets and the other for resetting the game. Please refer to ArduinoBoard.png to learn how to design the board.

In terms of the design, I tried to make it sort of retro. The song, the font, the color, the spaceship have all been designed in a way that it makes you feel nostalgic (at least for me). The sound track of the game is from a 1996 arcade game called “Out Run”, which is a car racing game but it also suits well in my game in my opinion.

Of course, a simple set of instructions are displayed before the game is initiated with the game title on top. I did not add any extra effects on this part because it is retro. To talk about how the game is run, the player can maneuver the starship left and right in order to shoot bullets at the falling “asteroids” that are polygons. I have limited the maneuver to left and right for the reason mentioned earlier. If a player collides with an asteroid he/she will lose 2 health points. If an asteroid collides with the earth, the health will also decrease by 10, as it is a fatal and collateral damage to the global community. If a player successfully hits an asteroid with a bullet, the asteroid will vanish and will be deducted from the total number of asteroids in the current level. There will be earth-looking items falling too and you should shoot at it to get 10+ on your health. Your level goes up when you eliminate all the asteroids in the level. Each level you go up, there will be 1 less earth item and 2 more asteroids.
